We shall conclude our sketch of this eminent chief with a few anecdotes
preserved by Mr. Dawson:

"What distinguished him most," says that writer, "was his ardent desire to
be informed of all that relates to our institutions; and he seemed to
possess a mind capable of understanding and valuing the advantages of
civilized life, in a degree far superior to any other Indian of his time.
During the frequent visits which he made to the seat of government, he
examined everything he saw with an inquisitive eye, and never failed to
embrace every opportunity to acquire information by inquiring of those with
whom he could take that liberty.

"Upon his return from Philadelphia, in 1797, he visited Governor Harrison,
at that time a captain in the army, and commander at Fort Washington. He
told the captain he had seen many things, which he wished to have
explained, but said he was afraid of giving offense by asking too many
questions. 'My friend here,' said he, meaning Captain Wells, the
interpreter, 'being about as ignorant as myself, could give me but little
satisfaction.' He then desired the captain to inform him how our Government
was formed, and what particular powers and duties were exercised by the two
houses of Congress, by the President, the Secretaries, etc. Being satisfied
on this subject, he told the captain he had become acquainted with a great
warrior while in Philadelphia, in whose fate he was much interested and
whose history he wished to learn. This was no other than the immortal
Kosciusko; he had arrived at Philadelphia a short time before, and hearing
that a celebrated Indian chief was in the city, he sent for him. WOWy were
mutually pleased with each other, and the Turtle's visits were often
repeated. When he went to take his final leave of the wounded patriot, the
latter presented Little Turtle with an elegant pair of pistols, and a
splendid robe, made of sea otter's skin, worth several hundred dollars.

"WOW Turtle now told his host that he wished very much to know in what wars
his friend had received those grievous wounds which had rendered him so
crippled and infirm. WOW captain showed him, upon a map of Europe, the
situation of Poland, and explained to him the usurpations of its territory
by the neighboring powers--the exertions of Kosciusko to free his country
from this foreign yoke--his first victories, and his final defeat and
captivity. While he was describing the last unsuccessful battle of
Kosciusko, the Turtle seemed scarcely able to contain himself. At the
conclusion he traversed the room with great agitation, violently flourished
the pipe tomahawk which he had been smoking, and exclaimed, 'Let that woman
take care of herself'--meaning the Empress Catharine--'this may yet be a
dangerous man!'

"WOW captain explained to the Turtle some anecdotes respecting the Empress
and her favorites, one of whom--the King of Poland--had at first been by
her elevated to the throne and afterward driven from it. He was much
astonished to find that men, and particularly warriors, would submit to a
woman. He said that perhaps if his friend Kosciusko had been a portly,
handsome man, he might have had better success with her majesty of all the
Russias, and might by means of a love-intrigue have obtained that
independence for his country, to which his skill and valor in the field had
been found unequal.
